Lead exposure , interactions and toxicity toxicity: food for thought .
The recognition that nutritional status plays a role in altering susceptibility to lead absorption and toxicity has triggered the development of this review .
There has been a significant increase worldwide in awareness and concern about the effects of lead on human health and the environment over the last two decades .
Both occupational and environmental exposures to lead remain a serious problem in many developing and industrialising countries , as well as in some developed countries .
Port Pirie ( South Australia ) has the world's largest lead smelter and the surrounding population continues to be exposed to environmental lead .
The increased awareness of the detrimental impacts of 100 years of smelting at Port Pirie led in 1984 to the development of the Lead Implementation Program , run by the Environmental Health Centre ( EHC ) , Department of Human Services ( DHS ) .
The major focus of the program is to reduce household lead exposure for pregnant women and children below the age of five years .
Despite intervention efforts by all stakeholders in Port Pirie , 55% of children less than 4 years old have blood lead levels above the National Health and Medical Research Council ( NHsentandMRC ) goal of 10 microg  dl .
The Port Pirie Lead Implementation Program includes components on nutrition education aimed at reducing lead absorption and toxicity .
However , nutritional intake and nutritional status of Port Pirie residents , in particular children under five years , has not been evaluated .
This review focuses on nutrition as a component of intervention in lead toxicity and it discusses the nutritional concerns in relation to lead exposure .
Fortunately most food patterns that reduce susceptibility to lead toxicity are consistent with recommendations for a healthy diet .
The relationship between nutritional status and lead uptake and toxicity is most clearly established for irregular food intake ( i.e i.e. periods of fasting ) , marginal calcium ingestion and ( subtle ) iron deficiency .
