Increasing trends in elderly persons' use of nonvitamin , nonmineral dietary supplements and concurrent use of medications .
Use of nonvitamin , nonmineral dietary supplements among an elderly cohort was surveyed to determine which were the most frequently used , and to report potential medication  supplement interactions observed .
A retrospective review of the use of 22 supplements and prescription  over-the-counter medications was collected annually from 1994 to 1999. .
Supplement and medication records for an average of 359 male ( 36% ) and female ( 64% ) participants aged 60 to 99 years were reviewed annually .
Ethnic distribution was 91% non-Hispanic white , 7% Hispanic , 1% Asian , and 1% African American .
Descriptive statistics generated included mean , standard deviation , and frequency by percentage .
To compare supplement user and nonsupplement user percentages across age groups , the chi 2 test was used .
Linear regression was performed to test for longitudinal usage trends of each individual supplement .
By 1999 , glucosamine emerged as the most frequently used nonvitamin , nonmineral supplement followed by ginkgo biloba , chondroitin , and garlic .
For women , there was a significant linear trend ( P sentinf .
05 ) over time for these 12 supplements supplements: black cohosh , borage , evening primrose , flaxseed oil , chondroitin , dehydroepiandrosterone , garlic , ginkgo biloba , glucosamine , grapeseed extract , hawthorn , and St John's wort .
For men , three supplements ( alpha lipoic acid , ginkgo biloba , and grape-seed extract ) showed a significant linear trend ( P sentinf.05 ) .
Potential interactions between supplements and medications were seen for 10 of the 22 supplements surveyed , with a total of 142 potential interactions observed over the 6-year period .
Examining nonvitamin , nonmineral supplement use in combination with prescription  over-the-counter medications in elderly persons is important to identify the potential risks of interactions .
