Chia ( Salvia hispanica ) : a systematic review by the natural standard research collaboration .
To evaluate the scientific evidence on chia ( Salvia hispanica ) including history , folkloric precedent , expert opinion , pharmacology , dosing , interactions , adverse effects , and toxicology .
This review serves as a clinical support tool .
Electronic searches were conducted in ten databases , 20 additional journals ( not indexed in common databases ) , and bibliographies from 50 selected secondary references .
No restrictions were placed on language or quality of publications .
All literature collected pertained to efficacy in humans , dosing , precautions , adverse effects , use in pregnancy  lactation , interactions , alteration of laboratory assays , and mechanisms of action .
Standardized inclusion  exclusion criteria are utilized for selection .
Grades were assigned using an evidence-based grading rationale .
The available human and non-human studies show possible effectiveness for allergies , angina , athletic performance enhancement , cancer , coronary heart disease ( CHD ) , heart attack , hormonal  endocrine disorders , hyperlipidemia , hypertension , stroke , and vasodilatation .
Some evidence also suggests possible anticoagulant , antioxidant , and antiviral effects of Salvia hispanica .
There is limited evidence supporting the efficacy of Salvia hispanica for any indication ; thus far , only two clinical studies have examined the effects of Salvia hispanica on cardiovascular disease ( CVD ) risk factors ( including body weight ) .
One study showed some effects on some CVD risk factors , while the other did not .
Neither study showed any effects of Salvia hispanica on weight loss .
However , the historical use of Salvia hispanica suggests that it is safe for consumption by nonallergic individuals .
Further rigorous examination is warranted pertaining to the use of Salvia hispanica as a dietary supplement , as well as in the treatment or prevention of human disease .
