Sesame oil exhibits synergistic effect with anti-diabetic medication in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus .
Recently , studies have reported that sesame oil lowered blood pressure and improved antioxidant status in hypertensive and diabetic-hypertensive patients .
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of sesame oil with anti-diabetic ( glibenclamide ) medication as combination therapy in mild-to moderate diabetic patients .
This open label study included sixty type 2 diabetes mellitus patients divided into 3 groups , receiving sesame oil ( n = 18 ) , 5 mg  day ( single dose ) of glibenclamide ( n = 20 ) , or their combination ( n = 22 ) .
The patients were supplied with sesame oil [BNB Sesame oil ( TM ) ] except glibenclamide group , and instructed to use approximately 35 g of oil  day  person for cooking , or salad preparation for 60 days .
12 h-fasting venous blood samples were collected at baseline ( 0 day ) and after 60 days of the experiment for various biochemical analysis .
As compared with sesame oil and glibenclamide alone , combination therapy showed an improved anti-hyperglycemic effect with 36% reduction of glucose ( P sentinf 0.001 vs before treatment , P sentinf 0.01 vs sesame oil monotherapy , P sentinf 0.05 vs glibenclamide monotherapy ) and 43% reduction of HbA ( 1c ) ( P sentinf 0.001 vs before treatment , P sentinf 0.01 vs sesame oil monotherapy , P sentinf 0.05 vs glibenclamide monotherapy ) at the end point .
Significant reductions in the plasma TC , LDL-C and TG levels were noted in sesame oil ( 20% , 33.8% and 14% respectively vs before treatment ) or combination therapies ( 22% , 38% and 15% respectively vs before treatment ) .
Plasma HDL-C was significantly improved in sesame oil ( 15.7% vs before treatment ) or combination therapies ( 17% before treatment ) .
Significant ( P sentinf 0.001 ) improvement was observed in the activities of enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants in patients treated with sesame oil and its combination with glibenclamide .
Sesame oil exhibited synergistic effect with glibenclamide and can provide a safe and effective option for the drug combination that may be very useful in clinical practice for the effective improvement of hyperglycemia .
Copyright bigasentc 2010 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and Metabolism .
All rights reserved .
