Selected pharmacokinetic issues of the use of antiepileptic drugs and parenteral nutrition in critically ill patients .
To conduct a systematic review for the evidence supporting or disproving the reality of parenteral nutrition nutrition- antiepileptic drugs interaction , especially with respect to the plasma protein- protein-binding of the drug .
The articles related to the topic were identified through Medline and PubMed search ( 1968-Feburary 2010 ) for English language on the interaction between parenteral nutrition and antiepileptic drugs ; the search terms used were anti-epileptic drugs , parenteral nutrition , and  or interaction , and  or in vitro .
The search looked for prospective randomized and nonrandomized controlled studies ; prospective nonrandomized uncontrolled studies ; retrospective studies ; case reports ; and in vitro studies .
Full text of the articles were then traced from the Universiti Sains Malaysia ( USM ) library subscribed databases , including Wiley-Blackwell Library , Cochrane Library , EBSCOHost , OVID , ScienceDirect , SAGE Premier , Scopus , SpringerLINK , and Wiley InterScience .
The articles from journals not listed by USM library were traced through inter library loan .
There were interactions between parenteral nutrition and drugs , including antiepileptics .
Several guidelines were designed for the management of illnesses such as traumatic brain injuries or cancer patients , involving the use of parenteral nutrition and antiepileptics .
Moreover , many studies demonstrated the in vitro and in vivo parenteral nutrition -drugs interactions , especially with antiepileptics .
There was no evidence supporting the existence of parenteral nutrition- nutrition-antiepileptic drugs interaction .
The issue has not been studied in formal researches , but several case reports and anecdotes demonstrate this drug-nutrition interaction .
However , alteration in the drug-free fraction result from parenteral nutrition- nutrition-drug ( i.e i.e. antiepileptics ) interactions may necessitate scrupulous reassessment of drug dosages in patients receiving these therapies .
This reassessment may be particularly imperative in certain clinical situations characterized by hypoalbuminemia ( e.g e.g. , burn patients ) .
