Safety of selegiline transdermal system in clinical practice: analysis of adverse events from postmarketing exposures .
The objective of this analysis is to present the safety profile of selegiline transdermal system ( STS ) in clinical practice after US Food and Drug Administration approval by analyzing reported postmarketing adverse events ( AEs ) .
Deidentified data were obtained on AEs , regardless of causality , as collected and compiled in the pharmaceutical company's adverse event collection systems  databases after the launch of STS in the United States .
All reports of hypertensive crisis , suicide attempts , and STS overdoses were carefully examined to independently determine relation of the AE to STS .
From April 2006 to October 2010 , a total of 3 , 155 AEs in 1 , 516 patients were reported ( 5.2% of the total exposures ; N = 29 , 141 ) , regardless of causality .
The most frequently reported categories of AEs were general disorders ( no .
of AEs = 1 , 037 , 3.6% ) and central nervous system ( CNS ) disorders ( no .
of AEs = 574 , 2.0% ) .
A total of 266 reports ( 0.9% ) were classified as serious AEs ; CNS disorders ( no .
of AEs = 71 , 26.7% ) and cardiac and vascular disorders ( no .
of AEs = 44 , 16.5% ) were most common .
There were 13 self-reports of possible hypertensive events or hypertension , although objective clinical data were not submitted in any of these cases .
Thirteen drug-drug interactions ( 0.04% ) were reported , and 5 were classified as serious .
The most commonly reported AEs were application site reactions and insomnia .
Very few patients reported a hypertensive event , and there were no objectively confirmed reports of hypertensive crisis with food at any STS dose .
Therapeutic doses of STS appear to have a safety profile in clinical practice that is consistent with that observed in clinical trials .
However , given the relatively modest exposure numbers , continued safety monitoring is recommended .
bigasentc Copyright 2012 Physicians Postgraduate Press , Inc. .
