[Influence of sucrose on aspirin ulcer] ulcer]. .
At the present stage of drug interactions , little has been studied on food- food-drug interactions .
Excess intake of sucrose is well known to cause arteriosclerosis , obesity , diabetes mellitus , toxicity to blood cells , dental caries , and accumulations of metabolic products in blood .
Under the such conditions , it is possible that the ulcerogenic drugs , such as synthetic anti-inflammatory drugs , may cause severe gastric lesions by oral administration .
The present investigation was undertaken to study the influences of sucrose on the gastric lesions induced by aspirin ( aspirin ulcer ) in rats maintained with 10% sucrose solution .
Thus , the effect of sucrose on aggressive and protective factors , proposed by Shay and Sun , was studied .
Method: Sixty rats were maintained with 10% sucrose solution ad libitum as drinking solution for 4 weeks ( 10% sucrose group ) .
As control , purified water was given ad libitum to 60 rats ( control group ) .
Rats were starved for 24 hours , but allowed free access of water before the experiment , and then were subjected to the following experiments: ( 1 ) Twenty rats from each group were treated to prepare pylorus-ligated rats .
Aspirin in 1% CMC ( 100mg  kg body-weight ) was given in 10 rats from each group immediately after the ligation .
Gastric juice excreted during 6 hours was collected and its supernatant ( 1 , 500 x g ) was used for determinations of pH , acidity , acid output , pepsin activity , and pepsin output .
Aspirin and salicylic acid contents in gastric juice were also determined by HPLC .
( 2 ) The mucosa of the stomach of ( 1 ) were subjected to the analysis of hexosamine .
Twenty rats from each group without pylorus-ligation were also used for the analysis .
Among them , 10 rats from each group were given aspirin in 1% CMC with the dose of 300 mg  kg body-weight .
( 3 ) Ten rats from each group were given aspirin with the dose of 300 mg  kg body-weight and the stomach ( n = 10 for each group ) was extracted 30 minutes after the aspirin administration for histochemical study to obtain covering mucus index , epitherial mucus index , total mucus index , and rate of mucous injury .
( 4 ) Aspirin in 1% CMC was given to 10 rats of each group with the dose of 300 mg  kg body-weight .
Rats were sacrificed 6 hours after the administration of aspirin , and then stomachs were extracted and treated with 10% neutral formalin .
The length of lesions was measured under a microscope ( x 10 ) , and then Ulcer Index was obtained .
( ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS ) .
