Pharmacodynamics and pharmacokinetics of the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors .
Similarities and differences .
Hypercholesterolaemia plays a crucial role in the development of atherosclerotic diseases in general and coronary heart disease in particular .
The risk of progression of the atherosclerotic process to coronary heart disease increases progressively with increasing levels of total serum cholesterol or low density lipoprotein ( LDL ) cholesterol at both the individual and the population level .
The statins are reversible inhibitors of the microsomal enzyme HMG-CoA reductase , which converts HMG-CoA to mevalonate .
This is an early rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis .
Inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase by statins decreases intracellular cholesterol biosynthesis , which then leads to transcriptionally upregulated production of microsomal HMG-CoA reductase and cell surface LDL receptors .
Subsequently , additional cholesterol is provided to the cell by de novo synthesis and by receptor-mediated uptake of LDL-cholesterol from the blood .
This resets intracellular cholesterol homeostasis in extrahepatic tissues , but has little effect on the overall cholesterol balance .
There are no simple methods to investigate the concentration-dependent inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase in human pharmacodynamic studies .
The main clinical variable is plasma LDL-cholesterol , which takes 4 to 6 weeks to show a reduction after the start of statin treatment .
Consequently , a dose-effect rather than a concentration-effect relationship is more appropriate to use in describing the pharmacodynamics .
Fluvastatin , lovastatin , pravastatin and simvastatin have similar pharmacodynamic properties ; all can reduce LDL-cholesterol by 20 to 35% , a reduction which has been shown to achieve decreases of 30 to 35% in major cardiovascular outcomes .
Simvastatin has this effect at doses of about half those of the other 3 statins .
The liver is the target organ for the statins , since it is the major site of cholesterol biosynthesis , lipoprotein production and LDL catabolism .
However , cholesterol biosynthesis in extrahepatic tissues is necessary for normal cell function .
The adverse effects of HMG-reductase inhibitors during long term treatment may depend in part upon the degree to which they act in extrahepatic tissues .
Therefore , pharmacokinetic factors such as hepatic extraction and systemic exposure to active compound ( s ) may be clinically important when comparing the statins .
Different degrees of liver selectivity have been claimed for the HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors .
However , the literature contains confusing data concerning the degree of liver versus tissue selectivity .
Human pharmacokinetic data are poor and incomplete , especially for lovastatin and simvastatin , and it is clear that any conclusion on tissue selectivity is dependent upon the choice of experimental model .
However , the drugs do differ in some important aspects concerning the degree of metabolism and the number of active and inactive metabolites .
The rather extensive metabolism by different cytochrome P450 isoforms also makes it difficult to characterise these drugs regarding tissue selectivity unless all metabolites are well characterised .
The effective elimination half-lives of the hydroxy acid forms of the 4 statins are 0.7 to 3.0 hours .
Protein binding is similar ( sentsup 90% ) for fluvastatin , lovastatin and simvastatin , but it is only 50% for pravastatin .
The best characterised statins from a clinical pharmacokinetic standpoint are fluvastatin and pravastatin .
The major difference between these 2 compounds is the higher liver extraction of fluvastatin during the absorption phase compared with pravastatin ( 67 versus 45% , respectively , in the same dose range ) .
Estimates of liver extraction in humans for lovastatin and simvastatin are poorly reported , which makes a direct comparison difficult .
