The role of zinc lozenges in treatment of the common cold .
To summarize and critique the medical literature on the use of zinc lozenges for treatment of the common cold .
MEDLINE searches ( January 1966-June 1997 ) identified human clinical trials on the use of zinc lozenges for the treatment of the common cold .
Bibliographies were also reviewed for relevant articles .
Double-blind , placebo-controlled trials of zinc lozenges in adults for the treatment of the common cold , with the clinical end points of reduction in duration and  or severity of cold symptoms .
All double-blind placebo-controlled , human clinical trials on the use of zinc lozenges for the treatment of the common cold were included .
The use of zinc lozenges in the treatment of the common cold has been suggested to reduce the duration and severity of cold symptoms .
Of eight double-blind , placebo-controlled trials , four found zinc lozenges to be effective , while the other four reported no difference between zinc and placebo therapy .
Potential reasons for the discrepancy between the results of these trials include inadequate placebo control , formulation of the lozenge , and the dose of zinc used .
Common adverse effects include unpleasant taste , mouth irritation , and nausea .
Treatment of the common cold with zinc gluconate lozenges , using adequate doses of elemental zinc , may be effective in reducing duration and severity of cold symptoms .
The benefit appears to be maximal if the lozenges are started immediately after the onset of symptoms .
The formulation of the lozenges also appears to be important because the addition of citric acid or tartaric acid may reduce efficacy due to chelation of zinc ion .
Although zinc gluconate lozenges have dominated clinical trials thus far , further studies are needed to demonstrate the efficacy of zinc acetate lozenges and to determine whether their adverse effect profile is more favorable to that of zinc gluconate lozenges .
Patients should play an important role in the decision-making process and must decide whether the benefit gained from treatment with zinc lozenges outweighs the potential adverse effects .
