Role of the ketogenic diet in children with intractable seizures .
To provide a review of the mechanism of action , clinical efficacy , adverse effects , drug interactions , and therapeutic considerations associated with the use of a ketogenic diet to manage patients with intractable seizures .
A MEDLINE search from January 1966 to the present and relevant articles from journals were reviewed .
The ketogenic diet has been used as a treatment modality since the early 1920s to control intractable seizures .
The exact mechanism of action is unknown .
Overall , uncontrolled clinical studies have reported that approximately one-third of patients with intractable seizures have become seizure- seizure-free on the ketogenic diet .
Common adverse events attributed to the diet include dehydration , gastrointestinal symptoms , hypoglycemia , as well as carnitine and vitamin deficiencies .
Cognitive effects , hyperlipidemia , impaired neutrophil function , urolithiasis , optic neuropathy , osteoporosis , and protein deficiency may also occur in some patients .
Carbohydrate content and drug formulation in the selection of medications while on the diet are important .
Acetazolamide , phenobarbital , and valproic acid have been reported to interact with the ketogenic diet .
Medications that cause carnitine deficiency or influence carbohydrate metabolism should also be used with caution .
The carbohydrate content of drugs in various therapeutic classes is presented to aid in the selection of the most appropriate drug and formulation for patients on the ketogenic diet .
The success of the diet in controlling intractable seizures is related to the patient's close adherence to the diet .
Minimizing carbohydrate ingestion from medications along with a multidisciplinary team approach to the selection and monitoring of the diet are important to the success of the ketogenic diet in controlling seizures .
The ketogenic diet has shown promising results in controlling intractable seizures ; however , carefully controlled clinical trials are needed to better assess the efficacy of the diet during its use and after discontinuation .
