The effect of food on bromfenac , naproxen sodium , and acetaminophen in postoperative pain after orthopedic surgery .
To evaluate the effect of a standard meal on bioavailability of bromfenac , and on the relative analgesic efficacy and adverse effect liability of bromfenac 25 mg , naproxen sodium 550 mg , and acetaminophen 325 mg in the treatment of pain after orthopedic surgery .
Randomized , double-blind , single-dose , parallel-group .
Two wards of the orthopedic surgery department at the Central Hospital , Karlstad , Sweden .
Three hundred ten patients with steady , moderate , or severe pain within 72 hours after orthopedic surgery .
Patients were randomly assigned both to receive a standard meal or remain in a fasted state , and to treatment with a single oral dose of bromfenac 25 mg , naproxen sodium 550 mg , or acetaminophen 325 mg , when they experienced steady , moderate , or severe pain that required an analgesic .
Using a self-rating record , subjects rated their pain and its relief for up to 8 hours after medicating .
Blood samples were obtained from all patients using one of two schedules .
The peak plasma bromfenac concentration for fed patients was only 28% of that of fasted patients .
Disregarding food intake , bromfenac 25 mg and naproxen sodium 550 mg were significantly superior to acetaminophen 325 mg for all summary measures of analgesia .
Bromfenac and naproxen were superior to acetaminophen by hour 1 and this difference persisted for 8 hours .
Food reduced bromfenac' bromfenac's analgesic effect , but not that of naproxen or acetaminophen ; treatment by meal interaction was significant for five measures of efficacy .
Analgesic response for fed bromfenac recipients , compared with those who were fasted , ranged from 37-71%. .
The percentage of patients reporting an adverse effect was significantly higher for bromfenac ( 25% ) and naproxen ( 24% ) than for acetaminophen ( 12% ) .
Results of analgesic studies not taking patients' food status into consideration might be misleading .
Although bromfenac 25 mg and naproxen sodium 550 mg produced significant analgesia compared with acetaminophen 325 mg , bromfenac' bromfenac's efficacy was significantly reduced when patients ate a standard meal .
Adverse effects were transient and consistent with the pharmacologic profiles of the drugs .
