Sustained relief of chronic pain .
Pharmacokinetics of sustained release morphine .
There are a number of modified release formulations of morphine with recommended dosage intervals of either 12 or 24 hours , including tablets ( MS Contin , Oramorph SR ) , capsules ( Kapanol , Skenan ) , suspension and suppositories .
Orally administered solid dosage forms are most popular but significant differences exist in the resultant pharmacokinetics and bioequivalence status of morphine after both single doses and at steady state .
Following single doses , the plasma morphine concentrations showed pronounced differences in the 0- to 12-hour period with a 4- to 5-fold difference in the mean peak concentration ( Cmax ) for morphine and the time to Cmax ( tmax ) The area under the concentration-time curve ( AUC ) from 0 to 24 hours for the 4 formulations show greater similarity .
None of the formulations were shown to be bioequivalent according to US Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) criteria .
At steady state , fluctuations in plasma morphine concentrations throughout a 12-hour dosage interval were greatest for MS Contin and least for Kapanol .
In fact , the relatively small fluctuations in plasma morphine concentrations following Kapanol administration suggested the same formulation could successfully be used with a 24-hour dosage interval .
The pharmacokinetic parameters of morphine following Kapanol once daily were similar to MS Contin ( 12 hours ) with the obvious exception of the longer tmax .
There is also another once daily oral morphine preparation ( MXL ) which has been shown to be bioequivalent to Kapanol under fasting conditions only in a single dose study in volunteers .
Food has been shown to have an effect on the pharmacokinetics of morphine following doses of immediate release solution and the modified release preparations .
However , bioequivalence is generally maintained between the fed and fasting states for most preparations .
MS Contin tablets have been administered rectally , but morphine pharmacokinetic parameters show greater variability compared with oral administration and the 2 routes are not bioequivalent .
The results suggest a slower rate but greater extent of morphine adsorption .
Somewhat similar results were obtained when Kapanol granules are administered rectally .
The morphine pharmacokinetics following administration of a specifically formulated controlled release suppository showed less variability ( rectal bioavailability was 42% ) .
The pronounced differences in morphine pharmacokinetics between the various formulations are not translated into measurable differences in the pharmacodynamic effects of pain relief and adverse effects .
The lack of bioequivalence between some of the formulations suggests that care should be exercised if physicians change modified release formulations as dosage adjustments may be necessary in some patients .
