Optimisation of itraconazole therapy using target drug concentrations .
Itraconazole is a new triazole compound with a broad spectrum of activity against a number of fungal pathogens , including Aspergillus species .
The drug is being used increasingly as prophylaxis in patients with immunodepression .
Itraconazole is highly lipophilic and only ionised at low pH .
The absolute availability of capsules in healthy volunteers under fasting conditions is about 55% and is increased after a meal .
Itraconazole is 99.8% bound to human plasma proteins and its apparent volume of distribution is about 11 L  kg .
The drug is extensively metabolised by the liver .
Among the metabolites , hydroxy- itraconazole is of particular interest because its antifungal activity measured in vitro is similar to that of the parent drug and its plasma concentration is 2 to 3 times higher than that of itraconazole .
Mean total itraconazole blood clearance determined in healthy volunteers following a single intravenous infusion was 39.6 L  h .
After a single oral dose , the terminal elimination half-life of itraconazole is about 24 hours .
The drug exhibits a dose-dependent pharmacokinetic behaviour .
Renal failure does not affect the pharmacokinetic properties of itraconazole ; however , little is known about the effects of hepatic insufficiency .
In immunocompromised patients the absorption of itraconazole is affected by gastrointestinal disorders caused by diseases and cytotoxic chemotherapy .
The pharmacokinetics of itraconazole may be significantly altered when the drug is coadministered with certain other agents .
Itraconazole is a potent inhibitor of cytochrome P450 ( CYP ) 3A4 and , thus , can also considerably change the pharmacokinetics of other drugs .
Such changes may have clinically relevant consequences .
Itraconazole appears to be well tolerated .
Gastrointestinal disturbances and dizziness are the most frequently reported adverse effects .
Clinical studies in patients with haemotological malignancies suggest that plasma concentrations [measured by high performance liquid chromatography ( HPLC ) ] sentsup or = 250 micrograms  L itraconazole , or 750 to 1000 micrograms  L for itraconazole plus hydroxy-itraconazole , are required for effective prophylactic antifungal activity .
It seems that a curative effect may be enhanced by ensuring that itraconazole plasma concentrations exceed 500 micrograms  L. .
The marked intra- and inter-patient variability in the pharmacokinetics of the drug , and the fact that it is impossible to predict steady-state plasma concentrations from the initial dosage are major factors obscuring any clear relationship between dose and plasma concentrations and clinical efficacy .
Thus , in patients with life-threatening fungal infections treated with itraconazole drug , plasma concentrations should be regularly monitored to ensure sufficient drug exposure for antifungal activity .
